## How do you make a transaction?

- The process for making a bitcoin transaction is `the same for any bitcoin wallet` you use
  . Enter the `address`. This is `where you want to "send"` the bitcoins
  . Enter the `amount`. The `amount of bitcoins` you want to send
  . Set the `fee (optional)`. This basically `sets the priority` for how quickly the transaction will get finalized.

- From here you'll just need to `wait for the transaction to get added to the blockchain…`

[Caution]: Always `triple-check` the amount and the address. You `cannot "undo"` bitcoin transactions
[Notice]: Use the `TXID` from your wallet to track your transaction status

## What happens when you make a transaction?

- 1. When you click "send", `your wallet sends your transaction` in to `one of the nodes` on the bitcoin network.
- 2. That node gets `relayed from node to node` until `every node on the network has a copy` of your transaction.
- 3. Your transaction gets `stored in the memory pool (temporary memory on their computer)` of `each node`
- 4. After roughly `10 minutes`, `one of the nodes` on the network will `mine the latest transactions from their memory pool` on to their blockchain
- 5. They will then `share this new block of transactions with the other nodes` on the network.
- 6. Upon `receiving this block`, each node will `verify it and add it` to `their blockchain (permanent storage) too`
- 7. And if your transaction `gets included in a block`, then your transaction has been confirmed and the payment is complete.

## How does a transaction make it in to the blockchain?

- `Each node` has the opportunity to `try and add the transactions from their memory pool on to their blockchain`. This process is `known as mining`
- To add transactions on to the blockchain, a miner `gathers transactions from their memory pool` in to a container called a `candidate block`
- A mining process is basically a `network-wide competition`, where `any node on the network` has a chance of mining the next block
- A node that can `mine faster has a better chance of mining the next block`, but the process of mining is unpredictable, so no single node is in control of adding blocks to the blockchain.

## Why do transactions have to be mined?

- The mechanism of mining is important for the following reasons:
  . `Prevents conflicting transactions` from being written to the blockchain:
  --- If `two conflicting transactions` are sent, then `only one of those transactions` will be written to the blockchain

  . `Any node can mine` the next block of transactions
  --- The fact that the `mining mechanism is unpredictable`, which means that `no single node is in complete control` of the transactions that get added to the blockchain

  . It's `difficult to removed transactions` from the blockchain

## What are transaction fees?

- Every `bitcoin transaction includes a fee` which are `collected by miners`, and therefore act `as an incentive for miners` to include your transaction in a block
- Because a `candidate block` can `only hold a certain amount of data`. So if `a lot of people are making transactions` at the same time, there may be `more transactions inside the memory pool` than can fit inside a block
- Therefore, miners will `choose to populate their candidate blocks` with transactions that have the `highest fees` on them
- The `faster you want your transaction to get mined`, the `higher the fee` you should use

## What fee should I put on my transaction?

- In general:
  . If there are `more transactions` in the memory pool than can `fit inside a candidate block`, you will need to use `a suitably high fee` to compete with the other transactions in the memory pool to get inside an upcoming block
  . If there are `fewer transactions` in the memory pool than can `fit inside a candidate block`, you can set the `minimum fee of 1 sat/vbyte`

- Transactions will `only stay in a node's memory pool for 2 weeks`, and after this time period a node `will remove the transaction from its memory pool`. Your transaction will disappear from the network

## How many confirmations should I wait for?

- A confirmation is `when your transaction getting mined in to a block`. Additional confirmations are `when further blocks are mined on top of the block your transaction` was included in
- Well, I know I said that you `cannot remove a transaction from the blockchain`, but it is `technically possible for it to happen`
- A bad miner with `a lot of mining power` could use their energy to build a new longer blockchain for nodes to adopt, and replace blocks (and transactions) that are already in the chain
- Personally, `1 confirmation is good enough` for me most of the time, and I'll wait for `2 confirmations if I'm receiving a large payment` that I want to be doubly-sure isn't going to be reversed

## How can I check the status of my transaction?

- You can `use blockchain explorers` to see the status of your transactions in real time
- When you make a bitcoin transaction, `your wallet should give you the TXID` for that transaction. This is like `a unique reference number for the transaction`, and you can use it to find the transaction in a blockchain explorer.
