## How does mining work?

- `Every node` on the bitcoin network `shares information about new transactions` together
- Each node `stores the new transactions` they receive `in their memory pool`
- Each node has the option to `try and "mine" the transactions` in their memory pool in to a permanent file (blockchain) which use `a lot of computer processing power`
- This processing power is required due to the presence of a specific type of challenge

## What is this challenge?

- Okay, imagine you're a node
- 1. You can `condense the transactions` in your memory pool in `to a single "string" of numbers and letters`
- 2. Next, your objective is to `hash this string` with `another number (called a nonce)` to try and `get a new string` that `begins with a certain number of zeros`
     Ex: blah0de1blah1de2 + 1(nonce) = this0is0result1

- 3. But if you `keep going` you may `stumble upon a number that works`
     Ex: blah0de1blah1de2 + 80085 = 00000000result2 (00000000 works)

- Furthermore, you'll also receive `a block reward` for your effort (which also `includes any fees from the transactions` you've added to the blockchain).

## Why is mining important?

- Why not add transactions directly to the blockchain?
- Because mining allows the entire bitcoin network to agree on `which transactions get "archived"`, and this is how you sort out fraudulent transactions in a digital currency.
- For example, you could `buy a beer with some bitcoins`, then quickly attempt to `buy a slice of pizza with those same bitcoins`
- So what's going on here?
  . Some nodes get the pizza transaction first (and ignore the beer transaction)
  . Some nodes get the beer transaction first (and ignore the pizza transaction)

## So how does the network decide which transaction to keep?

- The `first node` on the network to complete the challenge will add the transactions `in their memory pool on to the blockchain` and the rest will remove the invalid transactions from their memory pools
